# StakeAcross CCIP cross chain staking protocol

## Use Case Description

### Smart Contracts Overview

- **StakeAcrossSender.sol**: This is the Sender Contract deployed on Fuji, the source chain.
- **StakeAcrossVaultProtocol**: Operating on Sepolia, the destination chain, this contract is a key component of the protocol.

The `StakeAcrossVaultProtocol` is an extension of both the `StakeAcrossProtocol` Contract and the `Vault` Contract. It leverages the functionality of `StakeAcrossProtocol` for sending and receiving messages and tokens across blockchain networks, while also incorporating the features of the `Vault` contract, which adheres to the ERC4626 standard. The ERC4626 standard represents a tokenized vault framework, where ERC20 tokens are used to signify shares in an asset pool.

### Workflow

1. **Token Deposit**: A DeFi user deposits tokens into the `StakeAcrossSender` contract on the source chain.
2. **Cross-Chain Transfer**: The user then employs [Chainlink CCIP](https://docs.chain.link/ccip) to transfer these tokens, along with accompanying message data, to the `StakeAcrossVaultProtocol` on the destination chain.
3. **Share Minting and Transfer**: The `StakeAcrossVaultProtocol` mints shares equivalent to the deposited token value and transfers these shares to the user's account on the destination chain.
4. **Asset Redemption**: At a subsequent time, the user can redeem these token shares through the `Vault` contract. This enables the user to reclaim the original asset tokens on the source chain via CCIP.
5. **Yield Benefits**: If the asset tokens in the vault have appreciated (due to a successful investment strategy), the user can withdraw a greater amount of asset tokens than the initial deposit, benefiting from the yield generated by the protocol.

This use case demonstrates the integration of cross-chain capabilities with yield-generating strategies in DeFi, utilizing the robustness of Chainlink's CCIP and the efficiency of the ERC4626 standard for a comprehensive DeFi solution.

Chainlink CCIP fees are paid using LINK tokens. They can also be paid in the [chain's native token](https://documentation-private-git-ccip-documentation-chainlinklabs.vercel.app/ccip/architecture#ccip-billing) but in this example we pay CCIP fees in LINK.

## Project Setup Guide

### Overview

This project leverages [Hardhat tasks](https://hardhat.org/hardhat-runner/docs/guides/tasks-and-scripts) for streamlined operations. The task files are conveniently named with sequential number prefixes, indicating the order in which they should be executed for this specific use case.

#### Initial Steps

1. **Clone the Repository**: Start by cloning the project repository to your local machine.
2. **Install Dependencies**: Run `npm install` in your project directory to install necessary dependencies.

### Preparing the Chains

#### Source Chain: Fuji

For the source chain, where `StakeAcrossSender.sol` is deployed, you will need:

- **LINK Tokens**: Acquire LINK tokens for the Fuji chain. Detailed instructions can be found [here](https://docs.chain.link/resources/link-token-contracts).
- **CCIP-BnM Tokens**: Obtain Burn & Mint Tokens for the Fuji chain using the `drip()` function. More information is available [here](https://docs.chain.link/ccip/test-tokens#mint-test-tokens).
- **Fuji AVAX**: A small amount of Fuji AVAX is required, which can be obtained from [this faucet](https://faucets.chain.link/fuji).

#### Destination Chain: Sepolia

For the destination chain, where `StakeAcrossVaultProtocol` is deployed, you will need:

- **LINK Tokens**: Similar to the Fuji chain, acquire LINK tokens for Sepolia. Ensure you switch networks and interact with the correct LINK token contract. The same URL as above can be used.
- **Sepolia ETH**: A small amount of Sepolia ETH is necessary, available from [this faucet](https://faucets.chain.link/sepolia).

### Configuration Details

- **Network Configurations**: The `./networks.js` file contains all the configuration details. This file exports configurations used by the tasks in `./tasks`.

### Managing Environment Variables

For enhanced security:

- **Avoid Human-Readable Storage**: We advise against storing environment variables in a `.env` file or any human-readable format.
- **Encrypted Environment Variables**: Utilize the [@chainlink/env-enc NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@chainlink/env-enc) for encryption.
- **Required Variables**:
  - `PRIVATE_KEY`: Your development wallet's private key.
  - `SEPOLIA_RPC_URL`: The JSON-RPC URL from services like Alchemy or Infura for Sepolia.
  - `AVALANCHE_FUJI_RPC_URL`: The RPC URL for the Avalanche Fuji test network, typically `https://api.avax-test.network/ext/bc/C/rpc`.

## Executing the Use Case Steps

This guide outlines the process of deploying and interacting with the `StakeAcrossSender.sol` and `StakeAcrossVaultProtocol` contracts for our use case, using the Avalanche Fuji C Chain as the source chain and Sepolia as the destination chain.

### Deployment and Interaction Process

### Step 1: Deploy and Fund Sender on Fuji

- **Task**: Deploy the `StakeAcrossSender.sol` contract to the Avalanche Fuji C Chain.
- **Command**: `npx hardhat setup-sender --network fuji`
- **Note**: Record the contract address from the console output. This step also funds your contract if your environment variables are correctly set up.

### Step 2: Deploy & Fund Protocol on Sepolia

- **Task**: Deploy the `StakeAcrossVaultProtocol` contract to Sepolia.
- **Command**: `npx hardhat setup-protocol --network sepolia`
- **Note**: Take note of the contract address. In our example, `StakeAcrossVaultProtocol` also manages the MockUSDC ERC20 contract on Sepolia, handling the minting and burning of MockUSDC for simplicity in this example.

### Step 3: Transfer Tokens and Data from Fuji to Sepolia

- **Task**: Send a small amount of tokens (100 "wei" units) and data from `StakeAcrossSender.sol` to `StakeAcrossVaultProtocol`.
- **Command**:
  ```
  npx hardhat transfer-token
  --network fuji
  --sender <<Sender Contract Address on Fuji>>
  --protocol <<Protocol Contract Address on Sepolia>>
  --dest-chain-selector 16015286601757825753 // Sepolia destination chain selector
  --amount 100                              // 100 units of BnM
  ```
- **Note**: Record the Source Tx Hash from your console. The transfer can take between 5 to 15 minutes due to the cross-chain nature of CCIP.

### Step 4: Verify Message Receipt on Destination Chain

- **Task**: Check if the message has been successfully received on Sepolia.
- **Tools**: Use the [CCIP explorer page](https://ccip.chain.link) to monitor the transaction status. Wait for it to show "Success".
- **Note**: Record the message Id when successful.

### Step 5: Read Protocol Contract Balances

- **Command**:
  ```
  npx hardhat read-protocol \
  --network <<network>> \
  --address <<Protocol contract address>>
  ```

### Step 6: Redeem Shares from Protocol Contract

- **Task**: Redeem shares for equivalent assets, which are then transferred back to the user on the source chain via CCIP.
- **Command**:
  ```
  npx hardhat redeem-protocol \
  --network <<network>> \
  --address <<Protocol contract address>> \
  --dest-chain <<Sender contract address>> \
  --amount 50  // amount of shares to redeem
  ```

### Steps 7 and 8: Withdraw Funds

- **Withdraw from Sender**:

```
  `npx hardhat withdraw-sender-funds --network fuji --address <<Sender contract address on Fuji>>`
```

- **Withdraw from Protocol**:

```
  `npx hardhat withdraw-protocol-funds --network sepolia --address <<Protocol address on Sepolia>>`
```

## Additional Information

Each step in this process is a Hardhat Task, located in separate, sequentially numbered files in `./tasks`. Follow the sequence and pay attention to the console outputs for a smooth execution of the use case.


# Project Roadmap: TODO List

As part of our ongoing efforts to enhance and optimize our project, we have identified key areas for improvement and expansion. The following items are prioritized in our development roadmap:

1. **Activation of Fee Collection Mechanism**:
   - The protocol already includes a fee collection mechanism during Redeem or Withdraw operations. Our immediate task is to activate and configure this feature to ensure a sustainable economic model for the protocol’s maintenance and growth.

2. **Enabling Vault Hooks for Yield Strategies**:
   - Our Vault contract is designed with hooks for integration with yield strategy contracts. The next step involves activating these hooks to enable the Vault to interact effectively with selected yield-generating strategies. This activation is crucial for enhancing the protocol's ability to generate returns for its users.

3. **Development of Dynamic NFT System**:
   - We plan to create a dynamic Non-Fungible Token (NFT) system. This system will track and represent each user's reputation, investment history, and earnings, serving as a unique digital asset that reflects the user's engagement and success within the platform.

4. **Strategic Protocol Deployment**:
   - We aim to deploy the Protocol on a blockchain network that strikes an optimal balance between cost-efficiency and reliability. The chosen network should minimize transaction costs while maintaining high standards of performance and security.

5. **Expanding Sender Contract Deployment**:
   - To enhance the protocol’s reach and interoperability, we will deploy the `Sender` contract across all Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) compatible networks supported by Chainlink's Cross-Chain Interoperability Protocol (CCIP). This expansion will significantly increase the protocol's accessibility across diverse blockchain ecosystems.

These initiatives are integral to the project's advancement and will be actively pursued in our development cycle. We look forward to updating our community as we achieve these milestones.
